---
layout:     post
title:      "LeetCode Prepare (Summer 2019) -- Day 04"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-05-07
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - Algorithm
    - Data Structure
---

> There are two ways of solving problems, the first is to **find analytical solution** such as calculate math problems, the second is to **search for valid solution** which is more like what computer did. If it's hard to find the analytical solution, try to leverage the power of computer.

### Python Programming

- `string.isdigit`: easier to use than "c" in "1234567890" and it also works for `"123".isdigit()`.
- Using **bool to int** to choose element: `[a,b][c==d]`, because `int(c==d)` is 0 or 1, so the result is just **choose** the 0th or 1st element from `[a,b]`.

#### 295. Find Median from Data Stream

> There are some situations can be ignored if we know that this policy will be followed **from beginning**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As shown in [this answer](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-median-from-data-stream/discuss/74062/Short-simple-JavaC%2B%2BPython-O(log-n)-%2B-O(1)), if we know that we will follow the rule of puting the minimum value from max heap to min heap, we don't need to bother that much about where to add the new value.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Finding a concise criterion for operation is important, sometimes you need to combine **previous operations** and think about using a **process** instead of hard criteria.

#### 560. Subarray Sum Equals K

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It is a normal mistake that I will ignore the complexity for **process subarray**. When I try to find all subarray and *calculate*, I always think it has `O(N^2)` complexity but actually it's `O(N^3)` if we need to process the whole subarray everytime.

#### 79. Word Search

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Keep the search path in DFS can be a problem, especiall for pass by reference language! Copy an array/set can have complexity `O(N)`.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sometimes recurssion isn't that easy to be changed to iteration. In this problem **recurssion is much easier than iteration** ([here](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-search/discuss/27660/Python-dfs-solution-with-comments.)) for in-place edit and condition operation.

#### 380. Insert Delete GetRandom O(1)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In our mind the complexity for a data structure and operation is for its original useage!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this problem, we used to think `pop(ind)` from an array has complexity `O(N)`. But if we just remove the item **without keeping the order**, we can switch the element with the tail first and pop the tail!

#### 41. First Missing Positive

> A lot of tricks can be learn from this problem.

- If we want constant space complexity, the most obvisou option is **solve problem in place** which means *store the final result in current object*.
- Array index is a good key for series of known numbers.
- Just use **sign+/-** as a marker to say if something has been checked.

#### 621. Task Scheduler

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Solving programming problems are very similar as analyzing physical problems. The key is still **state & transition** but in programming, we can define the transition.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In programming, finding the best solution means **define the best move in each state**.

1. We need to firstly define what is the components we want in the states, which should be the key values that we care in this problem
2. Then we need to consider what is the best move/transition in each state.
3. Finally we consider use what data structure to deal with such state transaction.






