---
layout:     post
title:      "LeetCode Prepare for Google - Day 5"
subtitle:   "Tree, Python Time Complexity"
date:       2019-02-19
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - Algorithm
    - Data Structure
---

> All DP problems can be represented with *iteration* and *list*, and the list can be eliminated by **keeping only the related values**, see question 198.

> To deal with leafs in a tree, you can either **check the children before adding to stack** or you can **add to the stack then just check if it is None!**

### To Do
* (Done [Link](https://www.programiz.com/python-programming/methods/string))String (join, replace etc.)
* Binary Search (Search Algorithms)
* (Done) Tree travesal!
* Python build-in functions, [link](https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html)

### Python Programming

*	`set` in python is mutable, can be modified with `add` and `remove`. And inmutable set is `frozenset`.
* We can use `list(set(a))` to transform set to list. Remember that `set` itself have *intersection, union, difference* methods.
* `list.reverse()` returns nothing, just reverse the called list.
* `from collections import defaultdict` then `lookup = defaultdict(int)`, when insert `lookup[x] = 123`. Also, we can use `dict.get(key,default value)` to mimic the defaultdict with original dict.
* From defaultdict we can directly use `dict['a'] += 1` to build a new element in the dict.
* `dict.keys()` and `dict.values()` will return a list of keys and values.
* String has no method `sort()` but we can do `sorted(list(str))`.
* Take care when you `zip` elements, the zip will end when the **shorter** one ends.
* `list.sort()` has no return!!

### Tree Travesal

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Check [this link](https://leetcode.com/problems/recover-binary-search-tree/discuss/32535/No-Fancy-Algorithm-just-Simple-and-Powerful-In-Order-Traversal). In the above link, give extra care for code block within *do some business*.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To solve problems about tree search/travesal, we always want to **do some business while travesal!** And the most normal ways to travesal in a BST is DFS and BFS, we can choose one basesd on application.

### LeetCode Problems

#### 198. House Robber

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/discuss/156523/From-good-to-great.-How-to-approach-most-of-DP-problems.), this problem just remind me the **techniques can be used to DP!**

*	All DP can be added **memoimization**, which is to store the visited/calculated values and reuse.
* All DP can be represented with **iteration + list storage**.
* The above *list storage* can be replaced by keep only *related items*, just like in this problem.

#### 160. Intersection of Two Linked Lists

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/intersection-of-two-linked-lists), this problem is very interesting! The idea is **think about a way to create!** 

1.	Figure out what is the hard part of the problem. (Here is it may take different steps to the intersection from two head)
2. Any idea to solve the problem?
3. How would the problem be easier? Can we create this situation?

#### 101. Symmetric Tree

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To deal with leafs in a tree, you can either **check the children before adding to stack** or you can **add to the stack then just check if it is None!** The latter one mostly works better!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The travesal of tree is by DFS or BFS, then we can change the order of adding nodes to stack/queue to change the order for our travesal.

