---
layout:     post
title:      "C++ Fundation"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-12-15
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - C++
    - Programming
---

> I need this language for interview but apparently a programming language is just a tool for development. We should focus more on how we can design a system/software with this language.

##### Related Resources:
- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/editingevolved)
- [Language Fundations](http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial)
- [Project Based Learning (multiple languages)](https://github.com/tuvtran/project-based-learning)
- [S3 File System @ Github](https://github.com/s3fs-fuse/s3fs-fuse)

### Variables & Operator

##### New

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use of the `new` operator signifies a request for the memory allocation on the heap. If the sufficient memory is available, it initializes the memory and **returns its address** to the pointer variable.

The new operator should only be used if the data object should **remain in memory until delete is called**. Otherwise if the new operator is not used, the object is automatically destroyed when it goes out of scope.

##### Pointer, Reference, and Array Definition

- Java Style: `String[] a;`
- C++ Style: `int a[]; int* a; int& a;`

##### Pass by Value & Pass by Reference

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;References are generally implemented using pointers. A reference is same object, just with a different name and reference **must refer to an object**. Since references can’t be NULL, they are safer to use. In Java's term, pass by reference is to pass a **final** object.

##### Variadic Arguments

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In C++ we allow a function to accept any number of arguments.  Indicated by a trailing `...`.

### Class

#### Class Fundation

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**By default**, all members of a class declared with the class keyword have **private access** for all its members. Therefore, any member that is declared before any other access specifier has private access automatically.

- **private** members of a class are accessible only from within other members of *the same class* (or from their "friends").
- **protected** members are accessible from other members of the same class (or from their "friends"), but also from members of their *derived classes*.
- **public** members are accessible from anywhere where the object is visible.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;A member method can be **decleared** inside the class definition and **implemented** outside with scope operator (::). For example:

```
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class Rectangle {
    int width, height;
  public:
    void set_values (int,int);
    int area () {return width*height;}
};

void Rectangle::set_values (int x, int y) {
  width = x;
  height = y;
}
```

##### Method Overload

> In C++ to overload a method, the compiler only looks at **input parameters**. Just using different returning type will cause error.

> Note that `const` keyword can be used for method overloading! You can have two method with the same input but one is const.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Check [this tutorial](https://www.programiz.com/cpp-programming/function-overloading) for more details.

##### Friend Method

> By saying "friend method", we are talking about **friend of the class**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;By using a friend method, we can **access private member of a class**! (Why not getter & setterr?) Check [this tutorial](https://www.programiz.com/cpp-programming/friend-function-class) for more detail about friend method.

##### Init Fields in Constructor

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use `var(val)` operation between function name and function body to initialize related `var`. An example of such **constructor** is:

```
class CVector {
  public:
    int x,y;
    // constructor init x & y
    CVector (int a,int b) : x(a), y(b) {}
};
```

##### Constructor Initializing

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are many ways to initialize an object/class.

```
class Circle {
    double radius;
  public:
    Circle(double r) { radius = r; }
    double circum() {return 2*radius*3.14159265;}
};

int main () {
  Circle foo (10.0);   // functional form
  Circle bar = 20.0;   // assignment init.
  Circle baz {30.0};   // uniform init.
  Circle qux = {40.0}; // POD-like

  cout << "foo's circumference: " << foo.circum() << '\n';
  return 0;
}
```
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;An advantage of uniform initialization over functional form is that, unlike parentheses, braces cannot be confused with function declarations.

##### Operator Overload

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Operators are overloaded by means of operator functions, which are regular functions with special names: their name **begins by the operator keyword followed by the operator sign** that is overloaded. The syntax of operator overloading function is: `type operator sign (parameters) { /*... body ...*/ }`

##### `const` keyword

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are 3 things can be labled as const:

1. const field
2. const method
3. const return type

```
int get() const {return x;}        // const member function
const int& get() {return x;}       // member function returning a const&
const int& get() const {return x;} // const member function returning a const&
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Const member function can only access other **const** fields or methods. In essence, **const members shall not modify the state of an object**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Const members are very common. **Most functions taking classes as parameters actually take them by const reference**, and thus, these functions can only access their const members:

```
class MyClass {
    int x;
  public:
    MyClass(int val) : x(val) {}
    const int& get() const {return x;}
};

void print (const MyClass& arg) {
  cout << arg.get() << '\n';
}

int main() {
  MyClass foo (10);
  print(foo);

  return 0;
}
```

### Generic Type / Template

> Remember that templates are replaced by actual functions by compiler.

##### Function Template

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Defining a function template follows the same syntax as a regular function, except that it is **preceded by the template keyword and a series of template parameters** enclosed in angle-brackets `<>`:

```
template <template-parameters> function-declaration
```

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Note that the template parameters can be multiple and separated by comma such as `template <typename A, typename B>`

##### Class Template

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just like function template, we can define class template in the same way. Note that if a member method is defined outside class definition, we need to **declear the template class again**.

```
template <class T>
class mypair {
    T a, b;
  public:
    mypair (T first, T second)
      {a=first; b=second;}
    T getmax ();
};

template <class T>
T mypair<T>::getmax ()
{
  T retval;
  retval = a>b? a : b;
  return retval;
}

int main () {
  mypair <int> myobject (100, 75);
  cout << myobject.getmax();
  return 0;
}
```

##### Template specialization

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the above, we know how to define a *universal* template, which means we can use it for any type. Even better, we can **specialize (override) the definition of the template class for any specific input type**.

```
template <class T>
class mycontainer {
    T element;
  public:
    mycontainer (T arg) {element=arg;}
    T increase () {return ++element;}
};

// class template specialization:
template <>
class mycontainer <char> {
    char element;
  public:
    mycontainer (char arg) {element=arg;}
    char uppercase ()
    {
      if ((element>='a')&&(element<='z'))
      element+='A'-'a';
      return element;
    }
};

int main () {
  mycontainer<int> myint (7);
  mycontainer<char> mychar ('j');
  cout << myint.increase() << endl;
  cout << mychar.uppercase() << endl;
  return 0;
}
```

##### Template with Multiple Type Parameter

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One great usage of template specialization is we can declare a primary template with a variadic template and then specialize for each supported number of template arguments. See [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19923353/multiple-typename-arguments-in-c-template) for more information if interested.

### C++ OOP

> [This tutorial](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cplusplus/cpp_data_abstraction.htm) is a great resource for the C++ OOP topi.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Doesn't like Java, C++ doesn't provide OOP tool like `interface` and `abstract class`. As a result, C++ can be weaker than Java in **implementation decouple** such as `Car myCar = new ToyotaRV4()`.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Here are some possible ways to achieve OOP features in C++:

- Abstraction : we directly use `private` and `public` keyword in C++ class to make abstraction from class (represent class with a buntch of public fields and methods).
- Encapsulation : the same as abstraction, using `private` and `public`.
- Interface : besides using access label to expose public interface, we can also use **virtual method** to make an abstract class / interface.

### C++ Containers

##### Vector and List

- A C++ vector is a dynamically allocated array, which is almost the same as **ArrrayList in Java**. 
- A C++ list is a **(Double) LinkedList** in Java.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As a result, in C++ we can have random access in vector but not in list.