---
layout:     post
title:      "Java Database Connector - JDBC"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-07-25
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - JavaEE
---

## MySQL

### Install MySQL Server

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To play with JDBC, the first step is always to set up a database, for here, MySQL.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For MacOS, it is very convenient to set up MySQL with `homebrew`. Check [this answer](https://tecadmin.net/install-mysql-macos/) and install MySQL to your local mac machine.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To start, stop, restart or check status of your mysql database, use `mysql.server` command as:

- mysql.server status
- mysql.server stop 
- mysql.server start   
- mysql.server restart  

### MySQL Front

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;You don't really need a front end program for MySQL. As long as you have connected to the server, you should be able to use any SQL query through terminal.

### Login

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To login as root user, you need to run `mysql -u root -p`, then input the password for root user.

## JDBC

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;According to the [How2J](http://how2j.cn/k/jdbc/jdbc-mysql/386.html) tutorial, there are 4 major steps for connecting and executing SQL statement from Java server:

1. Initiate JDBC **driver** class.
2. Build a **connection object** by providing needed informations.
3. Build a **statement object** and use `statement_object.execute(String s)` to execute SQL statement.
4. Database connection is an important resources, always remember to close statement first, then connection.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the convention of accessing database from Java program, we will build a **DAO**, which means **data access object**. The DAO should implement all the functions about CRUD (creation, retrival, update, deletion -- the 4 major operation for data), and the Java program such as servlet can only use the DAO to access certain tables instead of write the code everytime.