---
layout:     post
title:      "LeetCode Prepare for Google - Day 8"
subtitle:   "Backtracking, Abstraction for Data Structure"
date:       2019-02-22
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - Algorithm
    - Data Structure
---

### To Do

* Summary programming paradigms!
* Binary Search (Search Algorithms)
* Python build-in functions, [link](https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html)
* Calculating time/space complexity! Especially worst case.
* (Doing below) Summary special/abstractive features for each data structure!

### Abstractive Features for Data Structure

#### Hash Table

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As in [this problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/copy-list-with-random-pointer/discuss/43485/Clear-and-short-python-O(2n)-and-O(n)-solution), hash table is actually building a **one-to-one mapping** between any two space! The key can be any object, so does the values.


### Backtracking Algorithms

> Check [this tutorial](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/backtracking-introduction/) for general introductions about backtracking algorithms.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Backtracking is good at **that considers searching every possible combination**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Basically most of the backtracking problems can be solved by other algorithms in higher time efficiency. But backtracking is very good at **enumeration**, such as in [this problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/letter-combinations-of-a-phone-number).

### Python Programming

* `"   fasdf saf".split()` will automatically ignore all the whitespace, but `str.split(" ")` won't. Check [this link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30271645/string-split-with-default-delimiter-vs-user-defined-delimiter).
* `list * N` will return a list which is N copy of the original list. This is very useful when **initialize new list based on other list**, for example `[-1]*len(V)` can build a new list with the length of `V`.


### LeetCode Problems

#### 15. 3Sum

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Need to carefully make the trade-off between space and time.
 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this problem, sorting is a O(nlogn) operation but the method itself is O(N^2), so there is no need to save the time for sorting. On the other hand, using sorting we can change the O(N) space complexity to O(1).

#### 138. Copy List with Random Pointer

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Except for understanding how to use a data structure, we also need to know the **special attribute/feature** of each data structure! And we need to analyze the problem in a very abstractive way!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In [this problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/copy-list-with-random-pointer/discuss/43485/Clear-and-short-python-O(2n)-and-O(n)-solution), we want a deep copy which is a *one-to-one projection* between original objects to new objects! And such projection can be easily accomplished by hashmap!
