---
layout:     post
title:      "LeetCode Prepare (Summer 2019) -- Day 03"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-05-06
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - Algorithm
    - Data Structure
---

### Python Programming

- `list.extend(list/set)` can add `set` **elements** to existing list though I don't really know how the order is determined.
- `collections.Counter(list/string)` can use `list/string` to initialize a counter.

#### 301. Remove Invalid Parentheses

> Generating all / part may have almost the same complexity! It's not really useful to shrink the set for backtracking if it's very hard to find criteria.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Always **think about the brute-force algorithm first** when you have no idea! Especially when it is hard to find a simple criterion for judging True or False.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Generate all and trim latter is equally important as find criteria first and only generate valid candidate! They may have the same complexity even!

#### 238. Product of Array Except Self

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When taking about `O(N)`, we can use the **output** to cache preliminary results.

#### 11. Container With Most Water

> The first thing for analyzing a problem is to **define** (mathematically) the **relationship** between input and outpu.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this problem, if you have defined `water=min(left,right)*dist` you will know that the minimum edge must be moved for larger amount of water.

#### 33. Search in Rotated Sorted Array

> A very important lesson is to learn **what optimization is important**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this problem, finding the rotating point first may take a little bit time but it will make the problem way easier! If in a company, such thinking pattern will save you a lot of time.

#### 322. Coin Change

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Take care for **initialization** when using dynamic programming! In this problem if `amount=0` the return should be `0` so we need to initialize the 0th state with 0.