---
layout:     post
title:      "Structural Query Language"
subtitle:   "SQL fundamentals"
date:       2019-03-18
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - Database
    - SQL
---

> [This tutorial](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/) is a great tutorial for basic and advanced SQL knowledge.

> The **sequence of operation** in SQL is important, chech [here](https://www.eversql.com/sql-order-of-operations-sql-query-order-of-execution/) for more details.

### Basic SQL

#### Select

##### LIMIT

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you only want a glinps of the table, use `LIMIT 50` at the **end of the query** to limit the length.

##### WHERE

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We can use `WHERE a>10` even we select the table with `SELECT * FROM ...`.

##### ORDER BY

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use 'Arithmatic' operation when order

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use **DESC** in 'ORDER BY' for decreasing ordering.

##### DISTINCT

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use `DISTINCT` to show a **set** for a certain variables. Take care that when we use `DISTINCT a,b,c`, we are saying get disctinct **conbinations of (a,b,c)**.

##### LIKE

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`LIKE` is a regular expression for SQL. Check [here](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-like/) for selecting items/rows that *like* the target. Use `ILIKE` for `LIKE` and **ignore cases**.

##### Directly Select One Column

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you pass a **subquery** that returns **exactly one column**, you can do `select (subquery) as "name";` and the result from subquery will be returned with a new name.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Using a new value can directly create a new column, such as `select 123 as num;` and you will get a new column names "num" and the value is 1.

#### Arithmatic

##### SUM, AVG

##### GROUP BY

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;'GROUP BY' is only used for arithmatic operations. 'GROUP BY' indicated **in which groups the arithmatic should be applied on**.

##### HAVING

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`HAVING` is to giving more constrains after `GROUP BY`. Take care if we use `HAVING` for the result of arithmatic operations, we **can't use its name after `AS`** but need to use the original equation such as `MAX(height)`. Because the `SELECT` operation is almost executed at last, so the name after `AS` doesn't exist when `HAVING`/`GROUP BY` is execuded.

#### CASE

> `CASE` is to deal with `if...else` operation.

##### WHEN

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The total symatic for 'when' is **WHEN ... THEN ... ELSE ... END AS ...**, remember to have the *AS* at the end.

#### Jonins

> JOIN represent the idea to preserve data in different relational tables. [Here](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-joins/) gives a great example with Twitter database to explain why we need separate tables.

> Join is to combine two table **by column**.

##### Aliases

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When join, it is normal to give your **table** and alias by `FROM table_name alias`.

##### ON

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`FROM ... JOIN ... ON ...` is the symantic for joining two tables.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Take care that when we working with two tables, we need to use `table_name/table_alias.column` when `SELECT`.

##### INNER JOIN

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The command `JOIN` is for **inner join**. Remember the **Venn Diagram** shown in [this page](https://mode.com/sql-tutorial/sql-outer-joins/) for different joins.

##### LEFT JOIN, RIGHT JOIN, FULL JOIN

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As shown in the above Venn graph, the difference between those join methods are just **when can we use NULL**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Left join says we need to have **all rows in left table in selected data**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Take care that if we want to use `WHERE` in join operations. `WHERE` must come **after** join. This is related with the **sequence of operation** in SQL. More details about the sequence of command is described at the beginning of this post.

#### UNION

> Union is to combine two table **by rows**.

##### UNION

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`UNION` is used **between** two `SELECT` operation. Consider the priority for command executing and the meaning of union to understand.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The two tables to be unioned must have the same number of columns and each column has the same data type.

##### UNION ALL

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Take care that `UNION` only return **distinct rows**, if you want all rows from two table, use `UNION ALL`.

#### SQL Data Type

> There are four major data types in SQL: String, Date/Time, Number, Boolean.

##### CAST/CONVERT

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To convert the data type for a column, use `CAST(column_name AS interger)` while selecting the data.

### Stored Procedure

> Stored procedure is where we can run *script* about SQL, we will learn operations like other computer programs.

> [This tutorial](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/getting-started-with-mysql-stored-procedures.aspx) is great for details about SQL stored procedure.

> This [online mysql environment](https://paiza.io/projects/3VqYy5oRntGmNgkMPNhtcQ?language=mysql) is great for testing your code with SQL.

#### Variable in SQL

> A variable is a named data object whose value can change during the stored procedure execution. We typically use the variables in stored procedures to hold the immediate results. These variables are local to the stored procedure. You **must declare a variable before using it**.

1. `DECLEAR name1,name2... type[(size)] [DEFAULT] val` to declear a variable, must declear before `SET`. Remember that SQL is a **strong type language** and we must declear with type. If the type is `varchar`, the `varchar(size)` is needed for maximum size of the string.
2. `SET name=val`, remember the **"="**.
3. If the return of a query is scalar value, we can use `SELECT ... INTO var_name` to assign the variable. For example: `SELECT COUNT(*)  INTO var1 FROM table1`.

#### Parameter in Stored Procedure

1. `IN` parameter: can't be changed in the procedure. Define as `CREATE PROCEDURE name(IN par_name type[(size)])`.
2. `OUT` parameter: **no value is passed in to the procedure by `OUT` parameter**! The `OUT` params are **initializaed inside the procedure**. When we call the procedure like `CALL procedure(@out_param)`, the out params are also **getting defined/declared**.
3. `INOUT` parameter: similar as **pass by reference**. Inout params need to be defined before passing, use `@` before the param name when using.

#### Condition Statement

##### IF

`if ... then ...  \n elseif ... then ... \n else ... \n end if`.

##### CASE

`case \n when ... then ... \n when ... then ... \n else ... \n end case`

#### Loop Statement

##### WHILE

`while ... do \n ... \n end while`

##### REPEAT

`REPEAT \n
 statements; \n
UNTIL expression \n
END REPEAT`