---
layout:     post
title:      "LeetCode Prepare for Google - Day 7"
subtitle:   "Medium Problems"
date:       2019-02-21
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
    - Algorithm
    - Data Structure
---

> **Write down the thinking process** when solving LeetCode problems! As I did [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-intervals).

> The key for any computer algorithm is **"in what state I should do what"?** So we need to *define our state* first and find the most efficient way *in that state to solve the problem*.

> In programming problems, **try to find odd point**!

> Give extra care to the **edge situation!** Where will the loop end? When will the value being update? What will be left after the loop? 

### To Do

* Summary programming paradigms!
* Binary Search (Search Algorithms)
* Python build-in functions, [link](https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html)
* Calculating time/space complexity! Especially worst case.

### Python Programming

* Use `dict.pop(key,default)` to remove item from a dictionary.
* Even for just normal dictionary, `dict[key]=value` will **add new item to the dictinary!**
* Sorting a list with iterable elements, it will be sorted firstly by the first item, if same, then sorted by the second item etc.
* Even though the data structure is self-defined, we can still sort a list! See [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-intervals/solution/), this is super important.

### LeetCode Problems

#### 11. Container With Most Water

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The following is how should we analyze this problem:

1. This is a searching problem that we are going to search for a pair that maximize the containing water.
2. The data structure is array, so **think about what method array has**.
3. The key for any algorithm is **in what state I should do what**! For searching, we need to **define the state** (*two pointer in this problem*, state is algorithm paradigms) and then think about the most efficient thing to do in the state.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this problem, for a searching problem, the most important is **critieria for comparing, state in each step, update method**.

#### 5	. Longest Palindromic Substring

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/discuss/2954/Python-easy-to-understand-solution-with-comments-(from-middle-to-two-ends).), in this problem, I learned three things:

1. Analyze problem as I described in the above question 11, **write down** the thinking process as I did in [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindromic-substring/) and [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-intervals).
2. Try to find the **odd point** for the problem, here in this problem, the odd point is the *center* of palindromic strings.
3. If there are more than one cases, you can choose to solve them a one time with abstraction or *discuss them separately*. You have this choice!!