---
layout:     post
title:      "C++ Fundation"
subtitle:   "Deeper SQL"
date:       2019-04-14
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - C++
---

> [This tutorial](https://www.learncpp.com/) is great for many fundamental element for C++.

> [This online tool](https://www.jdoodle.com/online-compiler-c++) is useful to quickly test C++ code.

> Need **comma after class definition!** No need after function definition.

#### Variable Initialization

> Arguments for function can only be initialized by **copy** `void func(int a=0);`. Can't do `void func(int a{0});`!

- Initialize by **copy/value** `int a=0;`.
- Initialize by **construction function** or say "direct initialization" `int a(0);`.
- Uniform initialization: `int a{0};`. Uniform initialization can't accept *type coersion* such as `int a{1.1};` will raise error.

#### Function Arguments

- Arguments for function can only be initialized by **copy** `void func(int a=0);`. Can't do `void func(int a{0});`!
- In C++ function argument can only been passed by **order**, named argument isn't available in C++, there is no `func(a=vala,b=valb)`.
- The default way of passing argument in C++ is pass by value, but we can use `void func(int &a);` to pass reference.

#### Constant Variable

> Take a look at [this tutorial](https://www.learncpp.com/cpp-tutorial/2-9-symbolic-constants-and-the-const-keyword/).

- **Compile-time constant:** at compile time the variable can be directly switched to the constant value. Defined with "constant expression" `constexpr double gravity(9.8);`.
- **Run-time constant:** the value can only be known at run time. Defined with `const user_age(age);`.
- **Symbolic constant:** the symbolic constant is just a object-like macro and defined with `#define var value;` for preprocessor. Remember that the symbolic constant will be processed by preprocessor, so it has no namespace, they are all *file visibale*.

## Memory Allocation

> According to [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36324634/what-is-the-difference-between-temporary-variable-and-constant-in-c) a temporary variable will be desctroied at the end of the full expression in which it was created.

> So, it is important that we can't use the address of a temporary variable out of this's life span.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To break the constrain of automatic memory allocation, which is the default for variable definition, we can use `new` and `delete` to manually allocate and delete heap memory. Check [this tutorial](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/new-and-delete-operators-in-cpp-for-dynamic-memory/) for more detail about manually allocation and automatic allocation.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In cases like linked list and tree structure, it is very usefull to use `node->next = new Node(val)`.

## Containers

> All containers in C++ is a **class template**, don't forget to define types while using it.

> The return from `obj.begin()` is a iterator for **pointer** directly to each elements, so can't use `vec[vec.begin()]` but should do `*vec.begin()`.

> Take care that `obj.end()` isn't the last element but the starting of next object!

### String

#### Traversal

#### Append & Delete

#### Sort & Revert

### Vector

#### Initialize

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Just initialize with a **series of elements** such as `std::vector mp{1,2,3,4}`.

#### Add elements

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Add to the end with `vector.push_back(element)`

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Insertion with `vector.insert(pos,val)` such as `vec.insert(vec.begin()+1,1)`.

#### Update elements

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The same as python `vector[i]=new`

#### Remove elements

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use `vec.pop_back()` to pop the last element in the vector.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`vec.erase(start_pos,[end_pos])` the `end_pos` isn't included. Both position should be an **iterator** such as `start_pos = vec.begin()+2` then the deletion start from the third element.

#### Erase Idiom (for all container)

> Check [this answer](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/347441/erasing-elements-from-a-vector) for more information.

> The `std::remove` function is in `#include <bits/stdc++.h>`.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The `std::remove` put all elements to be erased to the **end of the container** and returned the iterator from the top of the elements to be erased. Then use `container.erase(iter,container.end())` to erase.

#### Sorting

> The `std::sort` function is in `#include <bits/stdc++.h>`.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Seems like sorting container is always rely on the `std::sort` method. `std::sort(vec.begin(),vec.end(),[func])` the `func` can be `greater<int>()` to sort the vector in descending order. 

> Just remember the default is **smaller** which means the first input element is smaller than the second element. Check [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sorting-a-vector-in-c/) for more information.

#### Others

- `vec.empty()` return boolean value to check if a vector is empty.
- `vec.size()` return the size of the vector.

### Hash Map

> There are `std::map` and `std::unordered_map`, the latter should be more used.

> The basic element for map is `std::pairs`, [this tutorial](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15451287/what-does-iterator-second-mean) gives great instruction on that.

#### Initialize

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Initialize with a series of **pairs** `unordered_map<int,int> mp{{1,2},{3,4}}`.

#### Find element

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Use `map.find(key)` to return the **iterator of pointer** to the element with that key. If not found return **map.end()**.

#### Insert & Update Element

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The same as python, for hashmap, insertion and updating has the same syntax `mp[key]=val;`.

### Hash Set

> Hash set is very similar as hash map, use `unordered_set<T>` for definition.

- Insertion: `s.insert(val)`.
- Find: `if(s.find(val)!=s.end())`.
- Traversal: `s.begin()`

### Queue

> In C++ queue is pretty **strict**. We can't initialize a queue with some elements, we can't use iterator like `queue.begin()` to traversal a queue. **It strictly followed the FIFO fashion**.

- `q.push()` to push to the end of the queue.
- `q.pop()` to pop the last element from the queue.
- `q.empty()` to check if the queue is empty.
- `q.size()` to return the size of the queue.

### Dequeue

> Compared with queue, a deque is more like a vector but with both `pop_front` and `pop_back` method.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In deque, we can traversal the queue with `deq.begin()`.

### Stack

> Use the `#include <stack>`.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The same as Queue, stack can't be traversed with `s.begin()`.

- `stack.top()` return the reference of the top element.
- `stack.pop()` pop the top element.
- `stack.push(val)` push the element to the top.
- `stack.empty()`
- `stack.size()`

### Heap / Priority-Queue