---
layout:     post
title:      "14 Patterns to Ace Any Coding Interview Question"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2019-07-15
author:     "Jiayi.Liu"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: 	true
tags:
    - LeetCode
---

> [This tutorial](https://blog.csdn.net/Kaiyuan_sjtu/article/details/91313654) shows great analysis for some programming paradigms that is frequently used in code interviews.

### Python Programming

- Use `enumerate` when you need both index and element.

### Sliding Window - Reuse Previous Information

> 注意先分析这个题目**必然需要的资源是什么**，比如“必然要遍历所有subarrays”，这种情况就比较适合用sliding window。

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As shown in [this problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sliding-window-maximum-maximum-of-all-subarrays-of-size-k/), the key for sliding window (or even any programming problem is to **reuse the previous information / reduce redundancy**). To successfully reuse information, we need to firstly **find good series**, then make the **useful element / information** clear, and finally build the program.

#### Find a Series

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In [this problem](https://leetcode.com/problems/sum-of-subarray-minimums/discuss/170750/C++JavaPython-Stack-Solution), there are two *loops* or *series* we can spot, loop over all subarrays or loop over all elements. What makes a good series is the **connectivity** between two neighbors within the series! Here, loop over all subarrays almost gives no connectivity between two neighbors (you can get some connection if you loop over subarrays by loop over elements, but need to know it's actually come from loop over elements).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It is very important that sliding window algorithm must **have a state!** This is where the sliding window Alg differs from two pointer. It's normally being used *within a loop*.

#### Define Useful Elements

> Notice that the *previous information* we said **hasn't need to be information from the last state!**

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As shown in both problems above, we need to define the **useful range** for us to reuse / store the previous information. Notice that defining the useful range is basically equal to defining the waste / processed range.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The key for finding useful range is to **consider a normal state**. For example, consider just a random (or the first) element in the loop and find out what is the minimum information it needs.

### Two Pointer

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Two pointer is normally very useful when **the state can give information about what direction to move**, such as in two sum problem. Also, not as sliding window which is more useful for loop over all elements, two pointer is more useful while searching for a state.

### Fast & Slow Pointer

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The idea behind fast & slow pointer algorithm is to make the fast pointer go 2 steps at a time. The stop situation should be either the *fast* pointer get the end or the fast and slow pointer **meet**.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One thing to notice is that in this algorithm, we only need to check the *fast pointer*. Every step the slow pointer goes, the fast pointer already went and must be valid.

### Merge Intervals

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Merge intervals is more likely a senario than an algorithm. **Sorting** is a method likely to be used in this kind of problems because *it's hard to have a quick search for interval class*.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Heap can be a very useful data structure in this kind of problems. Just like mentioned above, using heap is considered a more efficient way of sorting.

### Use Index as Information

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sometimes, index in array can be used as powerful information, such as to finding the missing / redundent number in an array. The key point for this algorithm is to **switch** each number to the corresponding index.

### Conclusion

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;No matter what pattern, computer program is just a series of actions. So, **defining the states**, consider **what information is needed in each state** (kinda make a sub-problem) will always lead to the solution.
